---
layout: post
title:  "Getting Started with C++"
---

# Start here!

If you're a noob like me, it'll be best if you start with a blog post I wrote June 5th 2019: [Hello World program in C++](https://eamoses.github.io/blog/2019/06/05/hello-world-continued.html)

This article will step through installing C++ on your machine, and making sure you can compile a `.cpp` file into binary. This file is the executable file to run your program from.

## Variables and Types  {#variables-types}

Since C++ is a strongly typed programming language, we have to define the type of a variable at its declaration.
***
`int num;`

`num = 5;`
***

When double quotation marks `" "` are placed around a variable it makes it a string constant, or string literal. We'll see an error if we place quotation marks around our previous example.

`num = "5";`

output:

```cpp
playground.cpp:7:11: error: assigning to 'int' from incompatible type
      'const char [2]'
    num = "5";
          ^~~
1 error generated.
```

Once I run the command to compile my program, this error will be spit out. On the first line it has the name of my file and the number of the line the error occured on. It's descriptive in that it is telling me that I cannot assign a char type to an int variable.  The last line indicates that 1 error was generated from my program.

#### Variables and Constants {#vars-const}

#### Type conversion {#type-conversion}

## Arithmetic operators and expressions  {#operators-expressions}

## Files  {#files}

## Decision structures  {#decisions}

## Loops  {#loop}

## Functions  {#functions}


Happy coding!

E
<hr>
<h4>Got Questions❓, Comments 🗣 or Edits ✍</h4>
<h5>Use the Twitter thread below and hashtag <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/e4everything?f=tweets&vertical=default&lang=en" target="_blank">#E4Everything</a> to get in touch with me regarding this blog post:</h5>

<span><a href="https://eamoses.github.io/blog/2019/09/05/cookies.html" style="float:left;">Previous: Cookies</a><a href="#" style="float:right;">Next: TBD</a></span>