---
layout: post
title:  "Basics Part 1"
---

The first `1/4` of any college-level Programming Fundamentals course covers data types, variables, operators, and decision structures. Hopefully the next two blog posts will get you up to speed in a fraction of the time (and cost 😬 💸)

- DATA TYPES - strings, numbers, boolean, arrays, objects(this)

- VARIABLE DECLARATIONS - `const`, `let`, `var`

- COMPARISON OPERATORS -  `==`, `===`, `<`, `>`, `!=`, `!==`, `<=`, `>=`

- LOGICAL OPERATORS - `!`, `||`, `&&`

<hr>

### Variables and their Data Types

##### JavaScript:
```javascript
const greeting = "Hello fellow coder"
const question = "What's your name?"
const age = 36
```

##### Python:
```python
age = 35
favNumber = "What is your favorite number?"
```

A variable is defined as a name that represents a value stored in the computer's memory. The values with quotes around them are `string` data types and the value that `age` is referencing is an `int` or integer or number data type.

In the JavaScript example, we're using the key word `const` to declare our variables. In the Python example, we have no keyword before the variable declaration. It is different for all languages.

`const` refers to a constant variable = one whose data type will not change throughout our program. The examples below will illustrate why this is important in JavaScript, and why it's unnecessary in Python:

In JavaScript, we can concatenate strings and integers together like so:

```javascript
const result = greeting+age;
console.log(result);
```

```javascript
>>> "Hello fellow coder36"
```

Because JavaScript *assumes* what we want, and it converts it all to a string and saves it to the `result` variable, so we'll get `"Hello fellow coder36"`

If we don't concatenate (use the `+` sign) but use a `,` comma to dilineate arguments within the `console.log()`, we'll print out two different values of two separate data types:

```javascript
console.log(greeting, age)
```

```javascript
>>> "Hello fellor coder" 36
```

If we try to concatenate a string and a number in Python, this would be considered a `TypeError`:

```python
print(favNumber + age)
TypeError: can only concatenate str (not "int") to str
```

This is one reason why data types are important to understand in each language!

### Operators: Logical and comparison

We've seen use of the `=` sign. This sign literally assigns a value to a variable. We're only going to use variables that we have assigned values to (though you'll see this isn't always the case in JavaScript)

You can use `==` or `===` to make comparisons between values. These are read as completely different operators than the `=` single equals sign. 

```python
# First, assign a value to the variable
age = 36.5
# Then, compare it with another value
print(age == 35)
```

```python
>>> false
```

Since we're using `==`, it compares the value of `age` which is 36.5 to the `int` 35. Since they're not the same value, it returns false.

#### Keyword rule

Since all programming languages have keywords (I introduced JavaScript's `const` above) you **should not** use key words as variable names. At first you may do this accidentally, but as you use a language you'll learn which are reserved words to avoid and how to use them properly.

#### Floating point and integer division

One point to be careful of is `float` division and `integer` division. In JavaScript, there is only one divisor symbol `/`

In Python, there is one symbol for floating-point division: `/` and another for integer division: `//`

```python
# Divide two integers using the floating point divisor
5 / 2
# Get a floating point answer
>>> 2.5
```

```python
# Divide two integers using the integer point divisor
5 // 2
# Get an integer answer
>>> 2
```

As you see, it chopps of the `.5` for integer division. This is not precise if you're doing calculations!

Python

```python
# Is the first evaluation the same as the second?
(5//2) == (5/2)
# Is the first eval less than the second?
(5//2) < (5/2)
# Is the first eval more than the second?
(5//2) > (5/2)
# Does the first eval not equal the second?
(5//2) != (5/2)
```

The only ones that would print `true` are the second statement and the last statement.

The use of `!` is both involved in a comparison with `!=` not equal to, and logical operator `!` not. 

Javascript

```javascript
// Using the modulus operator
const leftover = 17 % 3
>>> 2
// Incorperating !
!leftover
>>> false
```
Since `leftover` contains the integer 2, it's a `truthy` value in JavaScript. Therefore its opposite is `false`.

Falsy values are as follows: `false`, `0` (zero), `''` or `""` (empty string), `null`, `undefined`, `NaN`

Javascript

```javascript
// Using the modulus operator
const leftover = 10 % 2
>>> 0
// Incorperating !
!leftover
>>> true
```

Happy coding!

E
<hr>
<h4>Got Questions❓, Comments 🗣 or Edits ✍</h4>
<h5>Use the Twitter thread below and hashtag <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/e4everything?f=tweets&vertical=default&lang=en" target="_blank">#E4Everything</a> to get in touch with me regarding this blog post:</h5>

<span><a href="https://eamoses.github.io/blog/2019/06/10/code-anatomy.html" style="float:left;">Previous: Anatomy of Code</a><a href="https://eamoses.github.io/blog/2019/06/16/basics-pt2.html" style="float:right;">Next: Decision Structures</a></span>