---
layout: post
title:  "Introduction to VS Code"
---

Visual Studio Code is a free and popular text editor for writting software programs in any programming language. It was created by Microsoft. There is a lot to this program, so I'll try to keep this post to what you must know to begin.

First, download Visual Studio Code: [Click on your operating system][download-vscode]

Open VS Code.  On the far left there's a menu list of icons. The first one looks like a piece of paper, clicking on this will hide and show the files in the Explorer column. In order to look for a specific file or directroy, go to `File -> Open` and select a specific folder or file. This folder or file will now populate the Explorer column.

The next icon down is a magnifying glass. Click on if it you'd like to search through the current directory. Use this as a literal text search - you can search for a single word, or a few words in a consecutive sentence.

We'll get to the rest of the icons later.

To create a new file, either click on the `file` icon within the Explorer column, or go to `File -> New File`.

Whenever you make a new file, make sure to put the specific extension of the language you'll be using. For example:

Markdown: `readme.md`<br>
Python: `pytest.py`<br>
JavaScript: `app.js`<br>
Ruby: `test.rb`<br>

You can only write and excute one language per file.

Happy coding!

E
<hr>
<h4>Got Questions❓, Comments 🗣 or Edits ✍</h4>
<h5>Use the Twitter thread below and hashtag <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/e4everything?f=tweets&vertical=default&lang=en" target="_blank">#E4Everything</a> to get in touch with me regarding this blog post:</h5>

<span><a href="https://eamoses.github.io/blog/2019/06/05/hello-world-continued.html" style="float:left;">Previous: Hello world Continued</a><a href="#" style="float:right;">Next: TBD</a></span>

[download-vscode]: https://code.visualstudio.com/download
